HTML breakpoints,
these are another really, cool thing.
So this is like an anecdote, but
I had this job once where
I was working on a tool.
And the tool was essentially this giant
table that was populated with data
in real time.
So like little cells of the table
table would always change and
I was really new on this team.
And we had a bug where when one would
change, sometimes it would go blank,
it would like update and
it would go white and
the bug was to figure out
why that was happening.
And so this is like back to the very
first slide of like dev tools can kind
of help you level up If I
was not good with dev tools,
I would have done what
everyone else would have done.
I would have either asked around,
or open the code and
start trying to find what code
populates the table, stuff like that.
But knowing Dev tools,
you can do these really cool things.
So, just like we'll learn how to set break
points in our JavaScript code in the next
section, you can set break
points on your HTML code.
So, if I go to like the HTML element
way up here, and I right click it,
I'll get this break on drop down.
And so, what this is doing is it says when
one of these three things next happens,
I want you to pause JavaScript execution.
And I want you to show me what
JavaScript caused the HTML to change,
which is really very powerful.
So you have three options, which is
whenever the subtree is modified, and
if you think about the DOM being a tree,
so elements have children,
elements of children elements
all the way down, right?
And so if you go to the HTML,
which is the top element, and
you say when the subtree is modified,
that will mean anything on the app.
But if you had a table like in my
anecdote, you'd go to the table and
do it there.
You could also do when
attributes are modified.
So that would be if we did it,
let's say on this h1.
It wouldn't change if the text changed,
but
it would change if the ID
changed like an attribute.
And then the third option is
break when a node is removed.
Again, this can be really helpful, so as
a little contrived example, I'll do break
on for the HTML subtree modification, so
anything changes in the subtree break?
I think I have an old one clicking
around here, which I'll get rid of.
Okay, so now you can see this
little blue breakpoint on the HTML.
So then I can go into console, and
I can do like document, get element by ID.
Let me find one that exists idea main,
so go back here.
Grab this main, and I'll do main dot inner
text equals high, something like that.
So I changed the articles
inner text to be high and
before it even processed, I get this.
I get this breakpoint here and
my DOM where everything is, is paused.
And if I click on the call stack,
again, we'll get into debugging later.
I just want people to be aware that they
can do this cool thing it'll actually,
show me the line that
changed that bit of HTML.
So I think this is one of those
things that is really powerful for
ultra specific situations.
Like you'll be in a situation where
the website is behaving strangely.
And you have no real idea what's
doing it in the JavaScript.
Being able to figure out exactly what line
of JavaScript is altering the HTML can be
really useful.
So I'll go ahead and play through here and
go back to elements.
As you can see the whole site
turned into the word Hi.
>> I followed along with the debugger
example and mine is just stuck
on when I updated the inner text to Hi,
>> Do you see up at the top of the screen
a little I think it's like a yellow
bar with a play button on it.
>> Yeah,
>> You can hit that to play through.
And I think it'll, get you there one
more time and you hit play again and
then it should go through.
>> Okay.
>> Yep, and then the other way to do it.
Yeah, that button should always be there.
I think there's me we do this again, so
you should have this play button up here.
I think there's also a way to just like
deactivate back here on the sources tab,
you can deactivate all break points,
and then if you hit play,
it just won't stop again,
which can be nice.
So you can kind of leave them on,
you can also then at any time go back to
elements and right click breakout and
then remove the thing and
then the blue circle should go away.
So then we have a finding event listeners
to this is like very much in common
with the HTML break points where we can
see something going on with our app,
but we're not exactly sure
where it's coming from.
So, like for example, you click on
a button and it does something and
you want to know where that
JavaScript comes from.
So that's what this third tab
over here event listeners is for.
And so
you can see this is a static HTML site.
So there is not really any
event listeners except for
this one that my code highlighter uses.
But if you were to do some code like make
a button and then add event listener,
click to it or something like that or
if you're in react and
you did an unclick event or anything
like that, those will all show up here.
When you click on the items you could
like click on different items and
see if they have any
event listeners this way.
Color formats is another cool one,
this one was added a few years ago,
but I really like it.
So you can see over here we've got border
top and then it's like this reddish color.
So we can pretty easily edit
the hex codes, right, but
another thing you can do is you
can click on the color itself and
it opens this like really
nice color palette.
You can drag it all around, so let's do
something like, let me close this and
let's take like the body and we'll do
background color and we'll click on that.
So now you can kind of
drag it all around and
really find the exact color
that you're looking for.
You can change all the kind of hue and
saturation and transparency and
all that stuff, and
it'll give you the hex code.
Another really cool thing is
this section down here as
the lower half which
populates like colors themes.
So for example is material UI,
you can again,
you can click on an element click
on the actual square of the color,
click on these this little toggle here,
and then click on material UI.
And now it'll populate this
nice little section here.
So as we're doing stuff, like we can
choose the body background from material
UI colors, which is Google's color theme,
but the thing I use it for more than that,
and let me refresh real quick, so I get
rid of that yellow is I'll go to here.
Click on this and
then I'll click on page colors.
And what this does is it's dynamically
reading the colors on the current page and
then generating a color
scheme out of those.
So this is like the actual
blue that I use up here.
You can also see that when
you scroll off of this modal,
it turns into one of those
really cool like zoom things.
And so you can like hover over if you
wanted to get the hex for this blue, or
this white or this red or
anything like that.
So these are all really cool,
so it's got like an eyedropper.
It's got all the kinda Hue Saturation
stuff, it has multiple different formats
RGBA, HSLA, hex and then it's got
this really cool theme picker here.
So there's like a lot here for
when you're designing stuff.
There's also a cool little Dev tools
trick, which is you can go back to body
and hover,
you can shift click on any color box,
and it'll instantly convert
it between the color format.
So I know some people at their jobs like
we all use HSLA or we all use RGB or
something like that.
So you could just like Set it to
a thing that you know like a hex, and
then you can shift click on it to turn it
into RGB other stuff that does it has this
accessibility panel.
The accessibility panel is really nice for
when you're doing stuff like,
we do a lot of stuff at work with
making our sites keyboard accessible.
So everything that you can do with a mouse
you should be able to do by tabbing around
with the keyboard.
And so this can be really nice where
it shows this accessibility tree.
And you can see like what
items have tab indexes or
which ones have any kind of ARIA.
Attributes on anything
like that will be in here.
And it can be really helpful when
you're just trying to look at like,
is this getting tap index or does this
have my Aria label that I put on or
anything like that will be in this tree.